## .NET Framework :

- It is a framework created by MS that develpers can use to develop applications easily.
- It is basically a collection of libraries.
- It has a number of pre-coded solutions that manage the execution of programs written specifically for framework.
  
### NOTE : A framework is just a bunch of code that a programmer can call without having to write it explicitly.

---

## .NET Framework (NF) vs .NET Core (NC) :

1. .NET Framework was a Old framework but still considered a "Full fledged Framework"
2. .NET Framework Not open source 
3. .NET Framework Only for Windows platform
4. App developed in .NET Framework is dependent on .NET Framework installed on Windows. But in case of .NET core, there is no such requirement that .NET core should be installed on your machine.
5. .NET Framework dosen't directly support Dependency Injectyion. If we want than we have to implement it manually from scratch.
6. .NET Framework supports ASP.NET, WPF desktop and web app development. In contrast .NET Core dosen't support desktop app development focusing instead on Web app, Windows mobile and store with ASP.NET

---
## Major difference :

### 1. Application development :
- .NET Framework was a Old framework but still considered a "Full fledged Framework" unlike .NET Core which is latest but still not full flegded.
- .NET Framework supports ASP.NET, WPF desktop and web app development. In contrast .NET Core dosen't support desktop app development focusing instead on Web app, Windows mobile and store with ASP.NET

### 2. Installation : 
- NF has a single package installation and runtime environment for Windows i.e even the package/code which is not being used in your application is also installed on the machine. Thus, system might become heavy.

### 3. Microservices support :
- NF dosen't support Microsservices while NC supports it.

### 4. REST services support: 
- NF provides a good support to WCF services also works with RESTful services.
- NC dosen't have support for WCF. You will always need to create REST API.

### 5. Performance and Scalability :
- NF is less scalable and has low performance
- While NC has high scalability and performance because of its architecture.

### 6. Mobile development :
- NF currently doesn't support Mobile dev.
- NC supports Mobile dev. Compatible with Xamarin and other open source platforms.

### 7. Packaging and Shipping :
- All libraries of NF are packed and shipped together.
- NC is shipped as collection of Nuget packages














